- [Narrator] Spring enjoys a great legacy of
providing superior data access frameworks,
making it a solution source for developers worldwide.
More than an inversion of control framework,
Spring now comprises a vast collection
of enterprise solutions.
One of the solutions is the Spring Data project.
Spring data's mission is to provide a familiar
and consistent, Spring based programing model
for data access, while still retaining
the special traits of the underlying data store.
Spring data is actually an umbrella of several sub projects.
Some address the commonality between data stores
others tap into those special traits.
Before we go any further I think it is very important
to get to know the Spring Data homepage.
It is the jumping off point for
all the Spring Data sub projects or modules.
And this is the place to go to
download a particular release bundle.
There is a section to show the release schedule.
There is access to the twitter feed
and stack overflow for answers.
There are working examples and documentation.
And we see there are several modules
and they all specialize in various data sources
but they all depend upon commons.
Commons abstracts away from any particular data source.
No matter what data source the goal is always the same,
have a way to convert java object entities
into target data source records and persist them,
as well as convert the records back to entities.
It has to look up data source records
by citing the entity attributes.
It has to update data source records by updating the entity.
And finally delete the data source records
by deleting the entity.
The repository pattern is the abstraction
used by Spring Data commons to accomplish these goals.
It is followed throughout the Spring Data project
for creating, reading, updating, and deleting records
by citing entities.
Any module for a particular data source
has a repository that extends from the generic one.
So for example, Spring Data JPA has a JPA repository,
Spring Data mongo DB has a mongo repository,
Spring Data gemfire has a gemfire repository, and so on.
Spring Data JPA is the most popular module,
therefore our deep dive into coding with
Spring Data common repositories will be in that chapter
as well as this querying chapter.
Lessons learned from these chapters will be
leveraged in the Spring Data mongo video
and hence any other Spring Data module.